hey man it's
freak thanks for
answering people usually don't
[Music]
answer that's why uh I've been c a
couple times they always say where's
freaky Ball but they never ask how's
freaky
[Music]
ball damn bro freak Bob just wanted to
chat bro fre B just wanted to chat
that's all you got hold on so I actually
built this so hold on let's see
um is a stats one oh that kind of
stats um twitch stats that's
cool okay but what I'm looking for is
the freaking
um
this this is going to be
uh
gears
okay okay so one more one more time this
is so
good hey man it's freak
po thanks for
this video is too good
dude it's actually 3D printed the whole
thing but let's just let's just keep
working on this so I had
a I also built this which is nothing but
someone handed me the actual part of
this and I took some calipers and I made
it this was pretty fun okay I also did
it with
this okay this we don't need Okay so
okay so the so the thing that we wait
hold on let me do this
actually um oh I might have to restart
okay yeah that's looking pretty good so
um
okay so what are we doing we
are we are building the actual gear
array so we're going to have a gear that
goes onto here and then a gear that goes
onto here and so I was watching this
video about how you actually do this but
I'm going to have to rewatch this video
and I'm going to get my notebook in the
trust e
Okay so
here is the
truss uh
e
e e
okay the module is the ratio of the
pitch diameter diameter to the number of
teeth
so wait hold on let's just
go to
uh the module is the ratio of the pitch
diameter to the number of teeth okay
effectively an
angle okay
the the pitch
diameter the effective diameter of the
gear that corresponds to the distance
between
it corresponds to the distance between
the centers of two gears in mesh and
then Z is the number of
teeth the module can be calculated by
dividing the pitch diameter with the
number of teeth determine the number of
teeth since you want a 2 to1 gear ratio
one gear will have twice the number of
teeth as the
other okay
you want the sum of the pitch diameters
to equal 15 30 45
Etc why does the
can we just try
that so we set the module to
one and then this to
five
um oh yeah uh Center hole diameter
all
right yeah I mean that's obviously too
small of a gear but it really doesn't
matter
uh there there's got to be a faster way
than opening up this stupid dialogue box
every time the modules and then this is
going to be
10 so then the pitch diameter is 10 so
since the module is the
same hey man it's freak Bob thanks for
picking up oh
[__] so then how do you
know well do we have the point
though we
do this should
be shouldn't that be 15
though wait no but that's
diameter that's diameter so we need to
do this we need to change
wait can we redo
so do you just put 10 and 20 is that
what it
is
yeah e
I'll do it again I'll do it again touch
me the right way baby I'll do it
again what the
hell oh shift s maybe I should just do
that okay 20
okay and now we need to rotate it
by the module which is uh it's going to
be 20 divided
by it's going be 360 divided by
the number of teeth which is
20 but over
two
okay yeah I hate that there's got to be
a better way to do that okay so this is
the right thing so these gears mesh so
these are the gears that I guess I want
to
use because
they're 15 AP
part is that what I
want so if we look at
this let's
um um okay so I'm just going to create
it in here I guess
so this is going to be
one this is going to be
10 it's going to be
0.5
this this could probably be 12 is way
too much we can probably make this
um four and then this is zero
okay and then where is the
gear okay so uh so we're going to move
this up really quick and then we're
going
to going to draw a sketch on here after
the position I'm going to draw a
rectangle Center
rectangle it's going to be five and five
oh
that's is that right in that case this
is is going to be too
weak and we're going to need to do so
what if we double
it so let's do that
again and this
time
um if we do 20 and 40 let's make
40 then it's going to be no I don't
think that's right because then 20 + 10
is oh that's
right
okay when you move
this uh 15 plus oh wait -
15 and then
-30 oh
yeah okay and so now if we inspect here
the distance between here is
30 and so then if we were to draw a
rectangle
on
here that's much more
reasonable wait what the hell is going
on
here oh did I do revert position I must
have
okay yeah that's stupid as
hell okay so then it's just going to go
in there like oh but we need to make it
like 5.1 by
5.1 or maybe 5.15 or
something for some clearance okay so
that's what we'll
do so we're going to undo
this
okay uh module is
one number of teeth is going to be 20
cuz I don't really want to do a set
screw I'm hoping I'm hoping that this
is going to work just as
is okay so the first thing
is and it is going to be in there it's
going to be like
but do we need a spacer I I don't
remember in the video if he has a
spacer compound gears use multiple gears
on the same axle to take a rotary motion
input and create a rotary motion output
the direction of travel for the input
will be opposite for the gear on the
next axle over but every other axle has
the same direction of
rotation to increase torque a smaller
gear okay it does have a spacer there
okay
so I actually want to go back
this playlist is
sick this is the first one
okay of 50 mm this number and this name
will become important in the next video
so keep that in mind uh with all this
entered you can press okay and then we
get a new component and this component
is now our SP gear what I'd like to do
now is design the mounting hub for this
gear and to do that I will first
activate the new component that we just
got and then I will go to solid create
sketch and then click on the top surface
of from the edge
this downwards to the exact length that
you need for so he extrudes and put
takes a cylinder out a little bit of
play and 10 mm plus a little bit of play
and these are the height and the
distance between Flats of an M6 nut next
I hit X for construction geometry and L
for line and from the origin I will drag
out a horizontal line with a distance of
5 mm and finally what I'll do is I will
select this line of this rectangle and I
will select this point holding down
control and then to those two objects I
apply the midpoint constru
and then I can finish the sketch I now
hit e for extrude and I drag down this
profile by 10 mm um if you want to make
it a little little bit more parametric
what you could also do is construct a
mid plane between the top of the
mountain Hub and the start of the gear
teeth and then extrude up to that mid
plane I'll leave that up to you the next
thing I want to do is create a hole for
the set screw to go into so I will now
select this surface right here create a
new sketch I hit C for
Circle I I mean this doesn't actually
avoid the need of a spacer to prevent
friction with the
uh well I guess yeah I guess the thing
about this is that you can make it so
this
won't have friction with the because you
just place it away from the
beam is that extruded a little bit I
can't tell
and then I will drag my cursor along
this line until we see this little
equilateral triangle up here uh this is
an automatic midpoint constraint which I
do want here so I click and I drag that
out and I type in 6.2 mm that is more
than enough to fit an M6 set screw uh
finish the sketch hit e for extrude and
click both of these profiles um and I
want to extrude this in two directions
so under Direction I go for two sides
and then on the one side I simply want
to extrude it all the way and on the
other side I want to extrude it 5 mm
which is exactly the same as the 5 mm
that we had on the length of the
construction line before uh this
extrudes it to exactly the center of the
shaft hole what you can also do again if
you want to be a little bit more
parametric is instead of a fixed
distance you extrude to an object and
then you extrude to this plane here and
then click okay and then we have a hole
for our set screw to go into the final
thing that we will need is uh a little
bit of a pocket for the nut to go into
and for that I again click this surface
over here create a new sketch and what I
will do now is under create polyon take
a circum descri polygon and then you
want to look around here until you get
this uh concentric constraint well I was
kind of hoping to 3D print the set screw
which is why I kind of wanted
to maybe I should print one of these
collars I wish there was a solo button
where you could just solo it
yeah I don't know how the hell I'm going
to be able to offset
this maybe I will just
um oh you know what I could probably
just draw the
cylinder did I build this in here
uh I feel like I didn't let's see if
I and then this presumably is 5.2 that's
three but I thought oh but I made the
Hol is
five I made the Hol is five but I
didn't but the beam is
three okay so I want to print out the
beam and I want to print out this but I
think let's
see okay and we made this
three so we should just make we should
just change this to be
like
3.2 then we should have more clearance
right but I never actually made the
M3 did oh what did I select for the
pitch parameters too 0.5 see that's not
going to work so we need to
okay so we need to open up vs code and
go to that freaking file okay here it is
we need to add a
designation so let's look for M3 by
0.5 we're going to copy this designation
I'm just going to paste this
one by
two change this to two save that okay I
wonder if it auto
updates oh nice it does you don't
actually have to restart
um that's pretty
cool I'm curious to see if this can
print without
supports okay but then I also want
to let's just do our standard thing
so well in this
case in this case they bore an extra
little
hole for the
nut and I'd like to know how far this is
to this hopefully it will tell me
10 okay let's try
it but yeah we want to put a um
but for right now I just want to see if
this
works so let's just try this so this is
going to be
three extrude this
by
11 then the
red
okay then I want to put a notch on here
I just want to extrude this by minus
one so then I could un unscrew it if I
wanted or something
and then do we want to actually do the
thing with the well we yeah we do we
want
to Q minus
.1 and then we want to fill it this by
0.15 okay
okay and then I could just design this
fast and it'll take me to freaking open
this thing up but
whatever okay so let's save this as a
mesh
I'm very curious to see if this thing is
going to
print because I'm not going to give it
supports we ball
okay and then we need this
okay but we should also
design the other type of
caller oh wait but before I do this is
this right was this just three no yeah
that's
okay so that should be
good all right so let's print these
things
okay I love this Auto arrange thing
that's sweet
okay and then I guess in the meantime
what I could do is I could design a
different one
like he
has on the circle that we made before uh
so I click and just drag this out um the
dimension that you get here doesn't
matter but you must here have a
six-sided polygon you must have a
hexagon for a nut uh so I just uh enter
that and what I will do now is remove
this Dimension that I do not want um I
will select this point here in the
corner and I will select this Edge over
here and I will give that a midpoint
constraint and then I finish the sketch
I hit E for extr I select this uh
profile right here I drag that out in
this direction and then I want to take
as an extent to an object which is going
to be this surface over here and so that
makes the bottom of the cavity hexagonal
and with the exact same dimensions
otherwise uh as the pocket that we
already created uh so click okay and
then we have all the features we need we
have a hole for our shaft we have a hole
for our set screw to go into and we have
a cavity for the nut that will accept
the set screw one final thing that I'd
like to show you is how you can export
this gear as an sdl so you can 3D print
it there are two ways to do this but one
way is pretty terrible the ter way is to
First safe your gear so I already saw
this that wasn't even that
interesting
um this video series is so I to show you
first with the orientation of the gear
like this with a mounting Hub on top and
the teeth at the bottom I can ensure
that this entire gear can be printed
well without the requirement for any
support second I have chosen to use four
perimeters here and what this allows us
to do in the case of this year with
these size teeth is that the gear teeth
consist nearly entirely of perimeters
and this gives a maximum amount of
strength to the Gear teeth if you have
larger gear teeth meaning that the
module of your gear is larger you may
need to increase the wall line count or
alternatively you have to print with
fatter lines so the line width has to go
up and possibly your Noz diameter has to
go up as well like to show you how you
can put this gear on a shaft so we take
the gear and we take care to align the
whole of the set screw with the flat
part of the D shaft and without
alignment insured we push the gear over
the shaft and then we take an all wrench
and a set
screw like this and then we simply Drive
the set screw into the
hole see see that's what it is a set
screw does not
have did he already put the nut in
though he
didn't we notice that the motor also spe
so the gear is now attached to the shaft
cool I would now like to show you how
you can design basically the same here
but without a mounting Hub which makes
it a little bit more compact so I make a
new design without a
h that's great rather
teeth and there we have the same gear as
before yeah try this I create a sketch
on the top surface and then I create the
same Circle as I did before of 8.2 mm to
go over the shaft finish the sketch hit
e for extrude and then extrude this all
the way down again again because I'm
lazy I don't want to match it to the
shaft length of the motor
and then uh we get to a little bit of a
different part so again we create a
sketch on the top surface and what I
want to do is create the pocket now for
the nut to go into um so I hit X for
construction geometry and L for line and
I drag out a horizontal line here the
length doesn't matter then I create a
second line from the origin and I want
to give that a length of 5 mm and then I
want to specify the angle between this
horizontal line and this new line that I
drew here so I select them both and
press D and then the angle that I want
here is 360 divid by the number of teeth
and that entire thing divid by two and
the reason I select this particular
angle and the reason I'm doing this in
the first place is because I want the
hole for the set screw end up where the
gear teeth are not so I wanted to land
right in the middle of this section here
so that it affects minimally the
strength of the gear teeth so now I
create a rectangle but if I create a
rectangle the normal way then I get
these automatic horizontal and vertical
constraints so that doesn't work so Z to
get rid of it and what I'll do instead
is just draw four
lines and what I'll do now is add the
perpendicular constraint three times to
three pairs of lines and then I give it
the dimensions as before so this will be
10.2 and this will be 5.2 and then as
before again this line has to be on the
midpoint of this point so select them
both and then midpoint constraint and
then the final thing that we need to do
is Select this angled line here and the
top end of this cavity that we're about
to make and make those parallel then we
can finish the sketch and then the same
as before extrude it
down that makes sense here everything is
basically the same as before so we
create a new sketch on this inner
surface here I hit C for Circle and I
look for this m 6.2m finish the sketch
do um again two sides and on the one
side I will go for all and on the other
side toint and now the point of what
we've been doing so far if I just click
okay is that most of the hole that we'
made of the gear and if you did it the
other way then the uh hole for the set
would dig right through this tooth over
here and that tooth would then become
quite weak compared to the other ones
and would be prone to breaking um so the
final thing as before create a sketch
here we create a polygon a circumscribed
polyon again look for this concentric
constraint to make sure it is a
six-sided polygon and then take this
corner Point here this line here give
the midpoint constraint e ex rout and
then this profile he only shoots the
bottom part I guess that makes sense
then we have basically the same idea but
this ge is much more compact than the
previous one one thing that I nected to
show you before is how you can insert
the nuts into the pocket oh yeah there
you go loose has in this case then it'll
simply drop in but you honestly want the
fit to be a little bit tighter than this
if the fit is a little tighter what you
can do is put the nut inside a pair of
combination pliers if you have a pair of
parallel pliers that would be better and
then leave a little bit of the flat
sticking out of the chalk you can then
keep the nut upright as insert it into
the hole finally if you need to drive
the nut home to the bottom of the pocket
what you can do is grab a screwdriver
and just tap it home with a hammer and
then that way you can ensure that the
nut goes all the way to the bottom of
the pocket you will damage your
screwdriver a little bit but this is a
two screwdriver so see if I can this
method of attaching the gear to the
shaft using only a single set screw does
suffer from two downsides first is that
there's a lot of force on the nut and
that force is transmitted into the
plastic and because the surface area of
the nut is rather small this creates a
very large amount of stress in the
material in plastic oh yeah he a
especially is susceptible to phenomenon
called creep and this will cause the set
screw to come undone over time another
problem is because we have only one set
screw and we are only pushing into the
gear from one side we induce a slight
asymmetry I have hooked up the motor now
to a power supply and I will turn on the
power supply and you can notice that the
gear will wobble it will not run
through let's how modify the design of
this gear to address the problems I
we're going to see I'm sort of
suspicious that this actually produces a
force that a clamping Force but we'll
see I hope it does
okay
so if that's the case then let's just
let's just assume that it works and
we'll find out in 10 minutes if it
doesn't cuz I really do want to just get
it
done um okay so we are looking at shaft
cross-section we need
to um wait how do I activate this
okay so maybe I could do just do this
again because I did this in
um I did this on the train not on stream
so let's just
uh okay so now what we want to do is we
want to insert component we want to
insert
oh wait I I found a new way of doing
this bro why can't I click on this
hello okay yeah we need oh this is nice
okay
so we want this can we insert multiple
things oh hell
yeah I think I saved the
uh hopefully okay and this thing updates
that's nice so we want
this we want the handle we want the beam
and we want the Cross Beam
wait open do I want
open no that [__]
sucks insert okay so wait so you
can't H that's so lame dude wait does
double clicking open it yeah of course
it
does so
insert insert
insert
um I guess we will need that but for
right now I'm not going to do
it
[Music]
um then we need the
handle okay so this is going to be a
doozy but
basically and and we can look at the uh
um okay so yeah so this is what we want
we
want the L facing out part to have the
handle
oh but we need the spacer first okay so
I would
say to make
this easiest oh wait you know we could
probably just disable that whatever so
we're going to put this and we're going
to join it
see okay I could
have how do you get the hole
though I could just do this and offset
it I'm kind of fine with
that no but that doesn't
work how did I do this
before I think you just draw a sketch
right
let's do it on the second
one wait actually the I think the better
way to do this is you do
this but then you don't get the point
there uh
okay if you finish this
sketch now if I
take I type J I attach it to this so
that is basically
right oh but that's at the bottom one
can we undo
that okay so let's undo the sketch we
don't need the sketch we are going to
make a sketch on
here where I do wait but I think that
this might be
faster okay we finish the sketch then we
type J we attach onto this
thing why did
it can we hide
this this is probably part of the
the Cross
Beam okay
cool and then we just want to move it up
like
20 d
15 okay
now okay we want to if we type J here do
we actually
get we do get that point it's pretty
sweet then we should be able to get this
point okay and then it doesn't really
matter which way it goes but do want to
just rotate it
180 okay and then this needs to go down
do we have a down two object
thing oh we do nice that's
sick radical
brother okay now we just need our
handle and then I think what we do is we
do the same thing okay wait wait but no
we'll just do flip so you type this L
wait x
l finish sketch then you take this point
J
hello what dude I swear I I do not have
an intuition for why this never like
sometimes works and sometimes doesn't
why did it work on that thing and didn't
work on this thing okay whatever we're
going to edit this sketch again we're
going to put a point
there
annoying
Point finish sketch join can I please
click on this thing dude holy
[__] why can't
I I literally have no idea why it
doesn't let me do it
okay what happens if I in here I just
click on this and type
project project this whole
geometry I should get this point so then
when I when
I type
join okay I don't know now I guess I got
it and I want to put it
on here
okay then I want to flip it then I want
to move it
down to this
thing that seems oh wait that thing uh
my but
probably
seven six no
seven okay so that's that but this is
not
far enough we need to
move can you move multiple things at the
same
time where are
the where the
arrows what the
hell okay first off we can just delete
this because let's see in this
one yeah what the hell was I thinking
you won't be able to rotate this thing
at
all this
so okay fine so we're going to move
this oh because it's rigidly joined
dude oh you can't move it so oh wait but
what you can do is you can go back
to the Joint
and you can change this to be like
okay the problem is it's not going to be
long
enough oh and then that's perfect that's
exactly what we
want I think
so okay nice so
now is this done
okay hold on I'll go get the
parts
e e
okay so I think I might need to modify
the shaft collar to be
bigger you get a nice
spitting let's see if anyone can see
this on here seems tight but not too
tight but then but it does slide back
and forth right so that's the whole
thing
but yeah these threads
are yeah I don't think this design is
very
good I mean I there's just no way I'm
going to be able to get this thing in
here oh but you know
what I think when you
when you thread this I think
right but if I pick this the hole
becomes smaller so even though I made
the
cylinder in the cross in the uh even
though I made it 3.2 with clearance it
basically disrespected
that
um okay so let's try to make one of
those gears that I can just set in place
how about
that okay so we're just going to make
this first gear
with set screw screw gear okay so we're
going to make the
gear it's going to be module of one the
number of teeth is going to
be
20 this is going to be 0.5 this is going
to be four this is going to be zero
then he okay so now we're going to have
to watch this
video uh and actually pay
attention should we We can probably
start from here bit more compact so I
make a new design and then I go back
into gear generator and then I add the
same parameters that I used before so a
module of 22 20 half 20 and zero and
there we have the same gear as before I
activate this component and I create a
sketch on the top surface and then I
create the same Circle as I did before
of 8.2 mm to go over the shaft finish
the sketch hit E for my
shaft oh okay and then I could probably
do this an alternate shaft that's
circular because presumably I could
also in
here I could do the same thing well I
don't really have the width that's the
thing is I want the gear to be thin but
he uses so much depth
there oh wait this screw is going
through
actually see if we can I'm going to need
like pliers
okay well and then the other question is
whether or
not e
okay yeah so the other design that we
could
do is this
empty yeah this is basically
okay so is we could
um what is the diameter the the diameter
is going to be
um [__] I don't even
know let's go to do we have the
the radius is six so we made it 12 I
think that was arbitrary okay so yeah
12 and we can make it
bigger let's make it
14 okay we're going to ex we're going to
actually we're going to draw a rectangle
here that's uh Center rectangle that's
uh
35 is that right or is it
3.3 we do 3.2 by
3.2 because this one we want to be
Tish so that it just has multiple things
holding it okay then we take this and we
extrude it but we also
want okay yeah we'll do that and we'll
extrude it by five that
enough
okay
then I guess uh we'll look at the front
face here we'll draw a sketch on here
but
we'll project this whole
thing and actually can we project
gu so we have these points so
now but we don't have this center point
but that's fine we can make that
um what is it that we were trying to do
yeah we're trying to find that Center
Point and draw a circle around it so
let's make it let's just do
this I don't know if this is the right
way to do but we we we do what we want
around here okay so this wants to be
52 no it's it's going to be five but
then we have to
oh wait is that the
diameter okay so what we want to do is
we want to finish this sketch go back to
this Extrusion and make it h
eight it's going to be a chunky boy oh
it's going to be too
chunky can we do a four can we make it
six
let try to make it
six actually that's that's maybe
enough okay so now we go back to the
sketch I we want to oh want to make this
not construction geometry because we are
going
to extrude this
uh distance all the
way okay so then the shaft like goes
through there and then this this design
doesn't have a washer at all it
just no or I mean it doesn't have a nut
but I feel like that's actually so so
stupid I feel like you kind of need a
nut because what else is to prevent
creep well we can we could try this
because this is only a demonstration
thing so it's not
like the end of the world if it doesn't
go that bad but so we still need to do
this though where we thread but the
problem is threading here
sucks because you to select all of these
it's like a total pain in the the butt
oh and you know what we have to cancel
this because we didn't want
to I think we I think I
drew on the wrong
thing so let's remove let's undo all of
this uh okay so we want to take this
face and we want to draw on it
can
we how do you do an offset face tangent
to this
thing no see that's stupid I
want tangent plane oh that's sick that's
exactly what I
want and then if we look at the top is
it actually a right angle to it okay
that's perfect okay so I want to draw on
here and bore into this
wall so we're going to draw on here and
then we're going to project this and
we're also going to project
this okay then we're going to draw two
lines both
construction okay then we're going to
draw C here and this is going to be five
right oh wait what
happened we could do
four I think this little thing was
three well what is four oh well
apostrophe that's a funny parsing thing
okay
so yes so let's just do this
extrude to
here Wait no that's stupid we do need to
go to the middle right because for it to
collide with
it all right so let's undo
that let's extrude and then let's view
the
origin plane which is Let's uh let's uh
hide this we're going to go to here
we're going to reenable
it okay so that's fine I
guess and then we're going to so this is
the same thing just done way harder for
no
reason okay so we're going to thread
this m4x two that's correct at least and
then I I'm fine having a a the the head
sticking
out okay but we do need to
do this at the very
least minus point
one and then fill
it
okay so we're going to see if we can get
that and then we can just print out a
normal okay so let's do
this set screw
callar no no
nut whatever no
nut
okay hopefully that can be
printed all right so let's uh save this
as a uh uh thing to print and then we'll
print also an M4
okay and then in my
lib oh I don't have an M4
yet ah okay fine at some point I really
have to automate this cuz I've done this
so many
times okay so
uh so this needs to be six no that's too
big this needs to be three
and then we need to draw
four oh
wait and then this should be
like
three maybe
two three
2.5 that sounds
good I mean yeah there's no
standardization we just get we just get
[__] done here and it's going to come
back to bite me okay now we're going to
extrude this
by I think eight right then we're going
to thread
this okay that's good then we just want
to select this face this face q minus .1
then we want to like this face
0.15 okay now we have the bolt now we
need to create a new sketch
oh wait uh I always forget this thing
new component from body where's the from
body from
body
um m4x
bolt
okay um new component
uh m4x 2
nut okay here then we want to create a
sketch hi this we going to sketch on
here then we just want and we'll just
move it
um this is also going to be not a circle
but a
polygon oop
[__] [__]
polygon the AR keys but the tab doesn't
work which is
fantastic
okay here this is going to be three
right then we want to do this this okay
then we want to extrude this by how much
do we say 2.5 that's probably not enough
the the the nut probably has to
be three
so there there we go another weird
inconsistency but
I oh you know what I could have done
actually to save a sketch I probably
could draw the circle here and this is
going to be four right and then I could
just extrude this by
three and then I can do this and thread
that and this going be 4X two model okay
see but you only get like two threads
worth so I I've heard somewhere where
you need
like oh wait that's not the
right you need like three threads for it
to be worth
anything
but who cares okay so now we can
reenable this we can select this move
this and just shift it
over okay cool that's not bad so this is
going to be M4 by
to save this and then we want to
also how did I do this in my
files I
have is it
pictures my lib did I just save oh I
just export okay that that's fine so
let's just do that save mesh as
and then we going to change this
to my
lib save that okay then we want to save
this one save mesh as
okay okay
perfect
nice so that wasn't too bad so then what
we're going to
do is we're going to
add set screw
collar oh wait did we already do
that whatever okay then we want to
add and then just for funsies I'm going
to add do these both even though we
don't really need the
nut okay so then what you want is auto
Orient and then Auto
Range okay and then we're going to see
how that is slce
print
yeah
Glo curbing un curbing your [__] is
stale ho yeah Glo
okay
uh quick what's next we're going to test
that out but then I guess we should just
keep working on this
thing I don't know if there's like a
find and replace ability
though but we could just keep
using copy paste and we do want to keep
them the same so we're going to paste it
and we're just going to shift it and if
I select this
face
um hold
on it's moving with respect to the
center but I want to offset it
by there that seems right because you
can select that
Ed
okay so then did I have a gear one file
I thought we can close this now because
we already did that we don't need the
handle really set screw
gear oh yeah was I going to do
this well we don't really need to do
this until we know
that
um that the set screw without a nut
works but it would be nice to have like
a real
part um
so maybe we could try
that maybe we'll do just for practice
we'll do both of these with the uh Hub
extension or
whatever and
without dude planetary
gears o bevel gear I kind of want to see
that that that looks cool
o worm gear oh bro I this guy is
goated your [__] is St yeah glow cban on
Curbing your [__] St yeah glow is such a
good song
okay let's [__] lock in let's do this
then we're just going to commit to doing
this you go to scripts and adds and then
this dialog pops up with a bunch of
scripts that are already installed and
if you scroll all the way down you will
find two instances of The Spar script as
far as I know it doesn't matter which
one you pick so you can just click run
and then this dialog comes up which asks
for a bunch of parameters for your gear
um I will explain what all these
parameters mean in a later video for now
I will just pick a few parameters that
will make sense later for the module I
will go for 2 and a half uh and I will
design a metric Gear with a pressure
angle of 20 number of teeth 20 backlash
I will leave at zero for now of root fil
radius of half mm I want my gear to be
20 mm thick and I prefer to make the ho
myself later on you will see why that is
at that time uh so I will put the whole
diameter to zero uh so that no hole is
generated and at the bottom now you can
see that it gives a pitch diameter of 50
mm this number and this name will become
important in the next video so keep that
in mind uh with all this enter you can
press okay and then we get a new
component and this component is now our
S gear what I'd like to do now is design
the mounting hub for this gear and to do
that I will first activate the new
component that we just got and then I
will go to solid create sketch and then
click on the top surface of this gear I
then hit C on the keyboard for Circle
and then from the origin I drag out a
circle and let's say we make it 30 mm
but I am going to 3D print this ge and I
want this mounting Hub to be as strong
as it can be so instead of giving it a
fixed Dimension I will just delete this
what I will do instead is Select this
inner little Edge right here on the
inside of the gear teeth and hitting
control I also selected the circle that
we just made and to those two edges I
apply the equals constraint and this now
makes the mounting Hub as large as it
can be without interfering with gear ke
so I finish sketch I hit e for extrude
and then I will extrude this 20 mm
upward next I would like to does he call
it it can be without interfering and
this now makes the mounting Hub as large
as it teth so I finish sketch I hit e
for extrude and then I will extrude this
20 mm upward next I would like to make
the hole for the shaft to go into for
that I will create a sketch on the top
surface of the mounting Hub hit Okay so
let's let's do
that um
oh wait wait wait what am I doing I I'm
so built into just starting everything
with
that okay so what did he do he did 20
2.5
20 um
0.5 did he do 20 here and zero that
sounds right okay then he drew a he
activated this component drew a sketch
on here he drew a circle
but then he selected this and this and
made them equal okay then he took this
oops took this and extruded it by 20
more right okay so there we go that's
the start and then from the origin I
draw a circle of 8.2 mm in my case I
want to mount this gear on a motor and
that motor has a shaft diameter of 8 mm
I also know that my printer tends to
print holes that are slightly smaller
than they need to be and so to
compensate for this I make the holes
just a little bit larger in Fusion 360
hit enter on this finish the sketch I
would like to try Mount this to the
shaft of
the e
I mean cuz what you would want is you
would want to drill through the whole
shaft and go from one side of the gear
to the or one side of the mounting Hub
to the entire other part of the mounting
Hub um oh this is almost
done okay so we'll find out in a second
all right let's keep
watching you could extrude this
downwards to the exact length that you
need
for
uh is it this I'm pretty sure it's this
actually
curbing on Curbing your [__] is stay I
thought I I thought I was trying to do
the split bodies
thing yeah it's so lame cuz I really
want to make that thing
rotate regardless
the outer diameter of the shaft
is f
five so should we we should make ours
five length of your motor but you can
also go the lazy way and just extend it
all the way and then press okay and now
we have a hole for our gear the next
thing I would like to do is make a
cavity for n all right so let me just do
that I'll just follow it step by step
see wait did he add clearance though to
go into but you can also go and this
finish the sketch
36 wait if I
do
this hey what the what the
Fick hit enter on this finish the sketch
then hit e for extrude and then you
could extrude this downwards to the
exact length that you need for the shaft
length of your motor but you can also go
the lazy way and just extend it all the
way and then press okay and now we have
a hole for our gear the next thing I
would like to do is make a cavity for a
nut to go into so I create another
sketch on the top surface of the
mounting Hub and then I hit R for
rectangle I drag that out and then I hit
D for Dimension and I will give this a
dimension of 5 mm plus a little bit of
play and 10 mm plus a little bit of play
and these are the height and the
distance between Flats of an M6 nut next
I hit X for construction geometry and L
for line and from the origin I will drag
out a horizontal line with a distance of
mm and finally what I'll do is I will
select this line of this rectangle and I
will select this point holding down
control and then to those two objects I
M6 I need to check if I even have
that
okay let's go get our stuff
though
for
e e
hey it's kind of crazy how small 4 mm
is okay
gosh I should have got the
pliers that's pretty strong
actually I mean it yeah if you tighten
it once it comes loose though it's loose
that's the
problem but
I think that that might be good so maybe
we'll just use this
design okay I kind of need to take a
[__] I'll be back
okay
so all right I'll be back in a
minute
for
e
e e
okay so I
have so I have metal M5 nuts but the
pitch on those is definitely not 2 mm
probably half or something so that means
that when I thread
the does he even do that or does he just
have a
cylinder con but anyways I won't make it
an
M6 however what I realized is if I want
to put it in the shaft if I want to put
the actual stepper motor shaft in this
thing and I use all 3D printed
components it doesn't matter how hard I
tighten it cuz there's just no way that
plastic is harder than steel so I'm not
going to Mar the surface of the the flat
so it really doesn't matter but that
being said getting
the size of this nut right
is I could do an M6 why not let's just
do
that okay let's just do
that so we're going to
draw surface here we're going to do LX
here
five okay then we're going to draw a
rectangle like this and it's going to be
5.2 and what did he say
10.2 and then uh
okay then
here that's it
right and finally what I'll do is I will
select this line of this rectangle and I
will select this point holding down
control and then to those two objects I
apply the midpoint constraint and then I
can finish the sketch I now hit e for
extrude and I drag down this profile by
10 mm um if you want
to make it a little bit more parametric
what you can also do is construct a mid
plane between the top of the mounting
Hub and the start of the gear teeth and
then extrude up to that mid plane I'll
leave that up to you the next thing I
want to do is create a hole for the set
screw to go into so I will now select
this surface right here create a new
sketch I hit C for Circle
who I'm also going to need to design the
m6 nut but that's just more the
same gear teeth and then extrude up to
that bid Lane I'll leave that up to you
the next thing I want to do is create a
hole for the set screw to go into so I
will now select this surface right here
create a new sketch I hit C for
Circle bro I am out of it what the [__]
and then I will drag I hit C for Circle
and then I will drag my cursor along
this line until we and then I create a
new sketch I hit C for Circle and then I
will okay
okay drag my cursor along this line
until we see this little equilateral
triangle here uh this is an automatic
midpoint constraint which I do want here
so I click and I drag that out and I
type in 6.2 mm that is more than enough
to fit an M6 set SC finish the sketch
hit e for extrude and click both of
these profiles um and I want to extrude
this in two direction so under Direction
I go for two sides and then on the one
side I simply want to extrude it all the
way and on the other side I want to
extrude it 5 mm which is exactly the
same as the okay
no two
sides this
one
all this
five
cool wait wait wait wait wait wait wait
M we have on the length of the
construction line before uh this
extrudes it to exactly the center of the
shaft hole what you can also do again if
you want to be a little bit morec is
instead of a fixed distance you extrude
to an object and then you extrude to
this plane here and then click okay and
then we have a hole for our set screw to
go into the final thing that we will
need is a little bit of a pocket for the
nut to go into there go and for that I
again click this surface over here
create a new sketch and what I will do
now is under create polyon take a circum
Po and then you want to look around here
until you get this uh concentric on the
circle that we made
before okay let me just watch two
minutes of this and try to again if you
want to be a little bit more parametric
is instead of a fixed distance you
extrude to an object and then you
extrude to this plane here and then
click okay and then we have a hole for
our set screw to go into the final thing
that we will need is a little bit of a
pocket for the nut to go into and for
that I again click this surface over
here create a new sketch and what I will
do now is under create polyon take a
circumscribed polygon and then you want
to look around here until you get this
uh concentric constraint on the circle
that we made before uh so I click and
just drag this out um the dimension that
you get here doesn't matter but you must
here have a six-sided polygon you must
have a hexagon for a nut uh so I just uh
enter that and what I will do now is
remove this Dimension that I do not want
um I will select this point here in the
corner and I will select this Edge over
here and I will give that a midpoint
constraint and then I finish the sketch
I hit e for extrude I select this uh
profile right here I drag that out in
this direction and then I want to take
as an extent to an object which is going
to be this surface over here and so that
makes the bottom of the cavity hexagonal
and with the exact same dimensions
otherwise uh as the pocket that we
already created uh so click okay and
then we have all the features we need we
have a whole let me try
that uh you first have to do
sketch then you have to
do polygon
you got to find that thing
okay okay that's
it that's sick we have a hole for ourc
to go into and we have a caet for the
nut that will accept the screw one final
thing that I'd like to show you is how
you can export this gear as ANL so you
can 3D print it there are two ways to do
this but one way is pretty terrible the
terrible way is to first save your gear
so let called FAL gear and then so
that's it
right so should I just make an m6x 2 set
screw do I have M6 I don't think I
do M4 M16 M8
yeah okay here we
go wa Let's uh save this one as
um Gear with
mounting
Hub that
screw okay
we can close this I think we can close
this okay so um so what's going on we
need to um
okay yeah what the hell am I talking
about am I an
idiot
um so this one needs to
be five right
then we extrude this by five right then
we draw
on here make a circle
of this is for an M6 right so six then
we need to extrude this by
however long we want
I'm curious how long it is from
here
to
34 Okay so
so so we'll make two designs
then this is going to be the normal one
so we're going to make just make this
like
12 damn it every time okay
two
two two save
that nice
M6 by 2
bolt
L10 let's just do this
nope oh
um oh wait wait
wait this is
a I hate that it's blue it's impossible
to
tell I think that's right
okay
M6 okay new
component we'll do M6 6X
2x
set
screw oh wait
okay so now
here oh it's Hollow in the middle
H so the outer diameter within the inner
diameter will be
four for
okay I'm trying to think about what the
easiest way for me to uh
cuz Okay well let's just do this
okay well then we're going to draw on
here and this is going to be
two and we're just going
to hollow out maybe
I mean that is really
weak but that's
fine okay
that's not so
bad
okay should I make it hex I don't even
know if I have a
should I give it a little bit of
clearance I mean I really don't have
that much
room H maybe it'll be
fine so now I just need to move it
I think I think I I think I do have
metric Allen
wrenches okay so let's print this damn
thing and then let's also print a um
let's just do
this okay
I say
60 what did I
say doesn't need to be 60 well it
actually does kind of need to be 60
because that cuz this thing is so
freaking big
chunky
boy okay
okay now we just got
to we literally don't even need to save
this cuz it's such
little okay but this I do want to save
Okay
cool
so oh we didn't expert this yet
too any right let's uh
this is more of
a god keeping this organized is terrible
okay so we
need
this need
this we need
this then we
need oh and we forgot the um this and
this
okay that it
okay I trust
it let's do this thing
okay I'd like to try the other one too
the other one though yeah it's want is
safe you can go to f export and then if
you scroll down a little bit on the file
type you can export it as an STL and
then you get this Cloud translation
which may take a few minutes and all
that good stuff uh so we export it and
then we have to wait for this to finish
this is the terrible way the better way
to do it is you simply go under Tools
under make and then 3D print and then in
this dialogue I prefer not to send it
through to a 3D print utility uh the
reason for that is every time you do
that a new instance of cura is opened
and that leads to a lot of instances of
cura at some point um and then I select
the component I wish the 3D print you
can also select bodies if you prefer and
then I hit okay and then I can just save
this the file name is already set to the
name of the component um I can save it
and then it's immediately done and if we
go to our job status uh we see that this
exporting via Cloud translation still
gone I and there are two things here
that I wish to show you first with the
orientation of the gear like this with
the mounting Hub on top and the teeth at
the
bottom I didn't check the
um I'm sure it'll be
fine all right I would like to show you
how you can design basically the same
gear but without a mounting Hub which
makes it a little bit more compact so I
make a new design and then I go back
into the gear generator and then I add
the same parameters that I used before
so a module 2 and half half 20 and zero
damn fast with that I activate this
component and I create a sketch on the
top surface and then I create the same
Circle as I did before of 8.2 mm to go
over the shaft finish the sketch hit e
for extrude and then extrude this all
the way down again again because I'm
lazy I don't want to match it to the
shaft length of the motor okay so let's
um okay so let's do
this okay 2.5
20.5 0 oh wait 20
0 okay
then and then uh we get to a little bit
of different part so again we create a
sketch on the top surface and what I
want to do is create the now for the nut
to go into um so I hit X for
construction geomet and L for line and I
drag out a horizontal line here the
length doesn't matter then I create a
second line from the origin and I want
to give that a length of 5 mm and then I
want to specify the angle between this
horizontal line and this new line that I
drew here so iess select them both and
press D and then the angle that I
okay oh yeah right I get
it
L I hate that you can't press X while
you're Drawing the Line I feel like like
you should be able to do
that give me 3 360 /
2 you can't do minus
okay here is 360 divided by the number
of teeth and that entire thing divided
by two and the reason I select this
particular angle and the reason I'm
doing this in the first place is because
I want the hole for the set screw to end
up where the gear teeth are not so I
want it to land right in the middle of
this section here so that it affects
minimally the strength of the gear teeth
so now I create a rectangle but if I
create a rectangle the normal way then I
get these automatic horizontal and
vertical constraints so that doesn't
work so Z to get rid of it and what I'll
do instead is just draw four
lines and what I'll do now is add the
perpendicular constraint three times to
three pairs of lines and then I give it
the dimensions as before so this will be
10.2 and this will be 5.2 and then as
before again this line has to be on the
midpoint of this point so select them
both and then midpoint constraint and
then the final thing that we need to do
is Select this angled line here and the
top end of this cavity that we're about
to make and make those parallel then we
can finish the sketch and then the same
as before extrude it downwards by 10 mm
from here everything basically so create
a new sketch on this here I hit C for
Circle and I look for this midpoint
constraint I make it 6.2 mm finish the
sketch e for extrude um again two sides
and on the one side I will go for all
okay I'm pretty sure that's it
right then he extrudes it then he makes
the cir okay
yeah you have to
do whoa cancel cancel
cancel wait did I do that right no no I
didn't do that
right he he extrudes at minus 10
right exted downwards by 10 mm
from here everything is basically the
same as before
so here I hit C for Circle and I look
for this midpoint constraint I make it
6.2 mm finish the sketch e for extrude
um again two sides and on the one side I
will go for all and on the other side I
will go for 5 mm and now the point of
what we've been doing so far if I just
click okay is that most of the hole that
we've made for the set screw does not
dig into the teeth of the gear and if
you did it the other way then the uh
hole for the set screw would dig right
through this tooth over here and that
tooth would then become quite weak
compared to the other ones and would be
prone to breaking um so so the final
thing as before create a sketch here we
create a polygon a circumscribed polyon
again look for this concentric
constraint to make sure it is a
six-sided polyon and then take this
corner Point here this line here give it
a midpoint constraint e for extrude and
then this profile you go up to this
space cut it out and then we have
basically the same idea but this ge is
much more compact than the previous one
one thing that I neglected to show you
before
oh nice you can sketch oh that's that's
really useful actually I like that a
lot why is it 5.26
5 so that's the whole
thing that's pretty
nice and nothing gets threaded because
that's pretty
nice so this is
um
gear no mounting
Hub set
screw okay cool
ooh this is probably a good
one let's just work through this whole
thing can insert the nut into the pocket
now if the fit is quite loose as in this
case then it'll simply drop in but you
honestly the fit to be a little bit
tighter than this if the fit is a little
tighter what you can do is put the nut
inside a pair of combination pliers if
you have a pair of parallel pliers that
would be better and then leave a little
bit of the flat sticking out of the chw
you can then keep the nut upright as you
insert it into the hole finally if you
need to ride the nut home to the bottom
of the pocket what you can do is grab a
screwdriver and just tap it home with a
hammer and that way you can ensure that
the nut goes all the way to the bottom
of the pocket you will damage your
screwdriver a little bit but this is a
twoe screwdriver so see if I care this
method of attaching the gear to the
shaft using only a single set screw does
suffer from two downsides first is that
there's a lot of force on the nut and
that force is transmitted into the Blas
and because the surface area of the nut
is rather small this creates a very
large amount of stress in the material
in plastic and as I've shown in my
previous video pla especially is
susceptible to a phenomenon called creep
and this will cause the set screw to
come undone over time another problem is
because we have only one set screw and
we are only pushing into the gear from
one side we induce a slight asymmetry I
hooked up the motor now to a power
supply and I will turn on the power
supply and you can notice that the gear
will wobble it will not run
[Laughter]
through let's now modify the design of
this gear to address the problems I have
brought up first I will add a cavity for
a washer to reduce the stress in the
plastic and thereby reduce the creep
that the plastic will experience so I
will create a new sketch and then put
that on this face over here hit C for
Circle and then look for this concentric
constraint and then I will give out 20.2
mm this is for 20 mm washers and then I
give it a little bit of extra space to
ensure that I can push them in later
finish hit e for extrud I will select
both of the profiles and then I will
directag that out by 1 and a half mm uh
this is a little bit more than the
thickness of my washers the next thing I
will do is create a sketch on the top
surface of the gear and then I will hit
P for project and I will project that
circular cavity I just made into my
sketch and then on the vi Cube I hit top
so I can get back into the correct view
I hit L for line and I connect these two
lines over here so that I can get a
complete profile I finish the sketch I
hit e for extrude and I select these two
profiles over here and I drag them down
and I will drag them to an object and
that object will be this circle over
here and then click okay and now I have
a nice cavity for the washer to go into
the final thing I wish to do is mirror
all of these features to the other side
of the hole to balance out the forces
and to prevent the concentricity error I
talked about before to do that I will go
to create mirror and then the pattern
type will be features and the feature I
want to mirror is both the washer
features and this pocket feature and the
hole and also this feature over here and
then the mirror plane will be this plane
over here and so now everything is being
mirrored to the other side I click okay
and then I do indeed get everything
twice I have two cavities for nuts I
have two cavities for the washers and
now if I look at it from this angle I
have one hole going straight through the
gear so now I can add two set screws uh
to balance out the forces that this gear
will experience and thereby prevent the
concentricity error I nowed this new
design to the motor as you can see if I
give this a half turn you can see the
set screw on either side and I will now
turn the power supply to show you the
concentric
ER so to my eye the concentricity does
seem to be improved but as you can
clearly see it is still not perfect and
I think the reason for this is that the
xry of of my 3D printer which is a cr20
is sagging slightly because the lead
screw to support it is on only one side
of the machine the other side is
essentially free floating and so that
side sags down ever so slightly which
causes the axis to no longer be
perfectly perpendicular in particular
this means that the shaft hole that we
drill here or that we print rather is
not completely perpendicular to the
faces I would now like to show you a
different way of attaching a gear to a
shaft this gear has a hole all the way
through the mounting Hub and on the
other side we find a nut which will
accept this screw and what we'll do now
is put the shaft through the gear and
then we have to line up the hole in the
shaft with the hole in the gear oh a
little bit tricky to find yeah this what
I you can use the pliers to give
yourself a little bit more Lage and once
it's lined up you can insert the screw
and push it to the other
side and then once it engaged with the
nut on the other side you can use an
allen wrench to tie the screw into the
nut and then we have our finished result
the benefit of using this technique is
that you can transfer enormous amount of
torque through the system uh there is no
way for this mechanism to come loose due
to a simple deformation for this
mechanism to fail something has to break
shft or the screw or the gear itself has
to break into pieces or otherwise this
mechanism will stay intact we're now
back in Fusion 360 and I've already
assigned some features of the gear so
the teeth are already there I've already
made the mounting Hub and I've already
the hole for the shaft in this case the
hole for the shaft is 10.2 mm because I
want to mount this gear on a 10 mm shaft
what I'll do now is create sketch and
hit one of these vertical planes I hit P
for project so good at this I hit X for
construction geometry and L for line and
I go from this midpoint here upwards to
this midpoint over here I want a line
going straight up uh I disable
construction geometry and hit C for
Circle and I look for the midpoint of
the line that I just made and I give
that a diameter of 4.2 mm because I want
to put an M4 screw through it later on I
finished the sketch I hit e for extrud I
go to two sides and then on both sides I
will select the extend all and then it
bugs out it unselects the profile so
just select it again and then press okay
so now I have a hole through the
mounting Hub of my gear i' now like to
add a small cavity for an M4 nut to se
into to do that I will first construct a
tent plane and the plane will be tangent
to the mounting Hub and for the
reference tent is and then I will select
this plane and this will Ure that the
plane I constructing is perpendicular to
the hole then I create a sketch on this
new plane and as before I hit P for
project to project the gear into my
sketch and as before I can't really
select a an automatic concent constraint
here so again I press X for construction
geometry and L for line and I draw a
line like this and now what I want to do
is go to create polyon CCRI polyon and
then from the midpoint I draw out
polygon like this again six sided the
distance between Flats now you want this
to be quite tight you can force them in
and then it will stay there du the
friction and then to constrain it fully
we select one of these edges and give it
a vertical constraint we finish the
sketch we hit e for extrude and then we
extrude this inward by about 5
mm what I'd like to do now is make a
pocket for the head of the STW to fit
into to do this I create another tangent
plane tangent to our mounting Hub and
then the reference plane will be this
plane that we made before and for the
angle I will give it 180 de so it ends
up exactly at the opposite end of the
mounting H now we create the sketch onto
this new plane um hit P for project and
now I want to be a little bit more
careful with what I select for
projecting so I'll select this line up
here and this little line down here and
the reason for that is that otherwise I
get too many profiles that are available
for extruding and then I have to go
through the effort of selecting the
right ones so hit okay and then on a few
dude mechanical engineering is so
cool or design so
cool just hit left so I can get a better
view again uh X and L for construction
line and draw that up like this then
disable construction C for Circle and
I'll make this circle 7 and2 mm thick um
because it's better if the screw fits
quite Loosely in here this doesn't need
to be tight then hit e for extrud and
then extrude the entire thing 6 mm down
because the head of the screw is a
little bit thicker than a nut hit enter
and there we
go one of the difficulties in using this
technique is that you must drill a hole
through the shaft that is Central on the
shaft it must not be off center because
then the alignment won't work and this
is more difficult than it seems because
as you try to press the drill bit into
the steel if you are off center ever so
slightly the drill bit will tend to
wander off that way or the other way and
so getting this hole nice and centered
is quite tricky indeed for this I have
designed a special jig and this jig
consists of a lower and upper part and
then on the bottom end here we have some
nuts which we will use layer for claing
and then we just have the steel shaft
this little Channel and then we put the
top half on top and then we can simply
use some bolts to close up The Jig I've
now closed up The Jig so we have the Bol
heads on top with the nuts here on the
bottom and in the center now we have the
shaft and on the top end here we have a
small little hole which will guide the
drill into the shaft so we can now put
this on the vi and close it
up and now we can start
drilling so I now try to locate the hole
the drill bit and then push it down and
now the jig will guide the drill bit
Center on the sh
[Music]
so we now have a completed hole but
there is now a little downside to The
Jig and that is that the chips that have
been evacuated by the drill bit upwards
Into The Jig have now enlarged this hole
substantially and so now the top half of
this jig is not really usable anymore so
here's a previous one that I used before
and you can see this one is also not
usable anymore but now let's open up the
jig and I'll show you the result so I've
removed the bolts and here we have our
result uh you can see that the hole is
nice and centered on the shaft though
you should note that because I was
slightly careless the two holes now that
are in the shaft are not exactly
parallel nevertheless both of these
holes should work for mounting this gear
so let's give this a try
and I will grab my wrench my pliers
rather put this in the right position
and now I should be able to round the
screw in
there grab the AL wrench and you can
tighten this
down you may have noticed over the past
few shots that the screw of this gear is
a little bit too long and I would like
to point out that the reason for this is
because this screw has a piece of smooth
shank and it is a smooth shank that is
in contact with the shaft and this
ensures a higher amount of strength and
also provides a little bit less backlash
but what I want to do now is cut this
screw off to the correct length and for
that there is another special trick so I
will make a mark where I want to cut the
screw off and then I'll go cut it dude I
just Ed a freaking you can see the cut
Mark right here that I want to make and
on the other end of the cut Mark I've
inserted three nuts and the reason for
that will become apparent in just a
second I forgot why I did this so now
I've cut off the last bit of the screw
that I do not want and if I open up the
device and you look closely at the
thread you can see that it is slightly
damaged and the nuts now will act as a
sort of um D to reform the thread into
what it need to be so this basically
undam the thread by unscrewing these
nuts and it gets for the third nut than
it was for the first I'm not completely
happy yet with this screw because
there's a slight sharp bur here that I
want to remove so I've put two nuts
again on the thread section and I can
just take a file I get rid of that
little nuble that I do not
want so that's smooth now and then I can
take the screw out of the device again
and again threading the nuts back over
the piece of thread that I just damaged
this doesn't work so I will need to use
my pliers
instead I'm of course I'm not going to
use Myers I'm going to use my
GL now this should fit nicely into our
deer so here we have our deer put the
screw in like this take our redge and we
can turn it
in and now we have everything we want
the screw this sick the head of the
screw is also nicely inside the mounting
Hub and here we see again that the
smooth shank is in contact with with the
shaft and this again ensures the maximum
amount of allowable torque and also
reduces the amount of backlash I hope
you found that interesting and
informative in the next video we'll be
taking a look at what parameters you
need to select for your gears and one
example we'll cover is this Archimedes
screw pump now in today's video we
designed this year over here but the
action of the pump is done with a shaft
down here and what we want to do now is
connect this shaft to this motor to
gears over here so we need to design the
matching gear for this gear that we
already have I'd like to thank you very
much for watching don't forget to hit
one of those buttons on our way out and
have a great
night hi in today's video I would like
to cover two topics that I couldn't
quite cover in my last video I would
like to show you how you can model
compound gears and I would like to show
you how you can add transfers to the
teeth of your gears I've open up a new
file and I've already created the first
gear I will now go back into the gear
generator and generate the second gear
this gear will have many fewer teeth
than the first gear and for
demonstration purposes I will also make
it slightly thicker than the previous
gear and then we press okay and then our
second gear shows up now that we have
two gears we must combine them into
becoming a single gear so first we go to
solid modify move copy and what we will
move is a component and in particular it
will be this smaller gear and then we
move that up by 20 mm which is exactly
the same as the thickness of the bottom
gear next we go to modify combine we
capture the position and the target body
will be the lower gear and the tool body
will be the upper gear and the operation
will be joined so click okay on this and
now if we look inside of our components
we see that one component has one body
in it which is our combined body our
complete conom gear and the other
component only has the origin and a few
of the sketches so this component is no
longer necessary so we can remove it
there is one unique aspect of compound
gears that I would like to discuss most
gears need to be fixed rigidly to their
shafts because they need to be able to
transmit torque into or out of that
shaft compound gears do not need to do
this and so these must be mounted in a
way that they can rotate freely with
minimum wear and friction this is most
commonly done by mounting the gear to a
shaft and then having that shaft rotate
between two bearings but I'd like to
show you a different technique and in
this case the shaft is held stationary
and the gear will rotate around the
shaft supported by two bearings that are
mounted inside of the gear so we create
a sketch on the top face of the KE and
we will drag out a hole of 22 mm plus a
little bit of space and this is for a 68
bearing now you can of course use
whatever bearing you like but I'll just
take 68 for now I hit e for exude and I
pocket this down 7 and half mm um it's 7
mm thickness for a 68 bearing and I give
it a little bit of extra space to Ure
that the bearing is not proud of the
face of the gear so we hit okay and now
we want a similar pocket on the other
end of the gear so that we can have a
bearing there too so we construct the
mid plane and we select the two gear
faces and then we go to create mirror
and then we mirror a feature which will
be this pocket and we mirror that around
the plane that we just created and we
press okay and then we have another
pocket for another bearing the final
thing we'll do is create a hole for the
shaft to go through now we only want the
shaft to touch the bearings but not
actually the gear itself so this shaft
actually needs to be a little bit larger
than the shaft to ensure that there is
no contact so the 6way bearing is meant
for an 8 mm shaft so I will make this
whole 10 mm to ensure that there is no
contact finish the sketch hit e for
extrude put that all the way hit okay
and there we have a finished gear the
advantage to this technique is that you
no longer need to create space for the
bearings inside the housing of your beer
train and this allows you to make the
housing a little bit more compact the
downside is that instead of the inner
rise the outer rise of the bearing is
now rotating and this causes the RPM
limit of the bearing to be a little bit
lower than the specifications would
imply however usually I don't get
anywhere near the RPM limit for a
bearing anyway i' like to show you two
different techniques for adding a Cher
to the teeth of your gear for the first
technique I've already created the gear
in the generator of course we'll start
with a sketch on this vertical plane and
first I project the top and bottom
surfaces of the gear into my sketch
using p for project and then I draw a
construction line going from the origin
upward and I'm looking for this
perpendicular constraint and then from
the middle of this new line I draw a
horizontal line going straight out and
the length of that line doesn't matter
next using regular geometry I draw a
triangle like this and I'll just give
this some
Dimensions now I don't want the Cher
just on the top face of the gear I want
it down here on the bottom so to achieve
this I will go for mirror and select
this triangle and the mirror line will
be this line that we made before and
then we press okay and now these two
triangles can still move around so what
I'll do first is Select this top Edge
and select this projected line and make
these collinear and now the only degree
of Freedom we have left is this side to
side motion so one thing you could do is
make this point coincident with this
point but if you zoom in real deep on
this area over here you see that there
are in fact two points very close to
each other so you run the risk that you
would select the wrong one so another
way to do it is to select this Edge over
here and this central line that we drew
before and set the distance between
those now what must that it be modu
number of Andes di
of I set the distance between those now
what must that distance be well it'll be
the module which is two the number of
teeth plus two and that gives you the
outer diameter of a gear but we don't
want the outer diameter we want the
outer radius so we divide the thing y
two and then the triangles are at the
correct spot now we can finish the
sketch and then we go for revolve and
then the profiles will be both of these
triangles and the axis can either be the
Z Axis or this construction line that we
made before and then we hit okay and
then we have a Cher that is a lot like
the Cher that a machinist would make
into a gear using his lath I've now
added a second gear to the design so I
can show you the other technique and for
this we simply go to the chamfer tool
and then we rotate our camera around a
little bit like this so we can draw a
box that selects all the top edges of
the gear and then we do the same thing
to select all the bottom edges of the
gear so we now have 100 edges selected
and we enter a distance let's say 1 mm
and this takes a little while to compute
because it's quite a difficult job for
Fusion 360 we hit okay we wait again for
a little while and there is the second
chamfer complete now why would you want
to add a chamfer to the of your gear in
the first place and I can think of four
reasons first if I delete this chamfer
on this gear and we imagine that these
gears are made out of hard and steel
then this area over here near the corner
of the teeth has a tendency to chip off
and one of the ways to prevent that is
to preemptively remove the material
basically by adding this chamfer and a
hardened steel chip inside your gear
train will reduce it life very quickly
the second reason is that if you try to
push these gears into mesh these
chamfers will help the two gears find
each other so that they will go into
mesh third if if you use the technique
on the right here uh the chamfer
counteracts the effect of elephant
footing in your 3D printer so if your
printer suffers from a little bit of
elephant footing then these edges over
here being a little bit too wide will
cause the mesh of the gears to be quite
a bit worse and you can counteract that
by adding the chamfer that you can see
on this gear and finally as this old
Tony teaches us the chamfer makes the
gear look a a little nicer and you can
charge more for parts that look nicer I
hope you found that interesting and
informative thank you very much for
watching and have a great
day and same okay
yeah let's see how how long we been
doing
this so maybe I should just build the
real stack
up because I'm happy enough with
this using what the
M4 and just a set screw
I don't think it's exactly strong enough
but some point I got to get this thing
done does this gear even have a uh dude
I hate when it does
that so how do we want to do this gear
do we want to make it a circle and just
use a set
screw or I could do both I could make it
a
square but also have a set
screw let's just do Square only for
now so this is going to be Center
OH
three point
one did I say I did this somewhere where
did I do
this oh I did this in the
Coller see can we open that
up okay
uh
okay oh wait it's this
one and I haven't put in the
gear now I feel like I should just build
it in the real thing
so what is this piece gear holding
beam derived okay well I don't care I'm
going to extrude
this 25
more cuz we also need to make sure it's
not going to hit
this thing so I'll make it
40 okay
then we have this handle
here so let's go
here okay we got that point
what
yes so we want to move this thing
okay now it needs to
rotate this
way then it needs to come
up probably five more
right is that it did I get it no oh it's
going to be 12. -
12.5
right no it's some weird number thank
God it's some weird [__]
number now I'm moving the wrong thing
aren't
I okay
well this is just where I get so
triggered like you do all this work and
then it just feels like it falls apart
because of all this nonsense
in this case it
was the
joint and why is there a space there oh
right because I redid
this but does it lose its
threads yeah it does doesn't it that's
fantastic
oh that's
great that's what you want
okay fine I'm going to go back to this
one I mean what's wrong with this
one I don't think there's anything wrong
with this one I just need to delete
these and then I need to
insert the
other
this where is it okay so
now do this we're going to um select
this component move
it up okay now we're going to J
no bro
no
okay then we want to put it
on
that okay and now we just want to move
this down to
here
perfect
cool okay now
copy
paste and then
now let's
do do this
more okay then we're going to Joint this
thing to this but then we're going to
move it up to this
face okay so now
that's in
there okay now we want to insert our
gear and then let's see what is the
distance if we inspect from
here to here 34 yeah let's just extrude
this by like 30
more wait
what what dude what
oh is it because
I I need to
select this thing and I just need to
extrude it by 30 okay I I get it I get
it I'm just upset that's fine hopefully
that doesn't like mess anything up
okay but now we need the
gear so I would like to just design the
gear else SAR
um let's just do it
here okay so
this is going to be that's fine this is
going to be one this is going to be 20
it's going to be 0.5 your thickness is
going to be four whole diameter is zero
okay then we want to construct
a and we want to make a rectangle that's
centered and we want to make this 3.2x
3.2 then we want to extrude this to here
okay then we want to um can we
just move
this over a little bit okay then I want
to Joint
this I don't understand dude this [__]
is so crazy it worked from the bottom
though all right and then we want to put
that
on
here and then we're just going to assume
the plastic is strong enough to not to
form basically and then we're going to
just move this up to
here okay and then let's go back to the
reference picture there is another one
on here so then we're going to go to
this
collar
copy paste and then we just going to
move this to
here
plus
um
2.5 is that right
three that looks right what does 3.5
look
like okay
okay I think it is
2.5 okay so
then what is the distance from here from
here to here right now we're at
14 shouldn't it be
15 did I do something
wrong it should be 5 + 4
+ oh yeah no okay I don't know where
that extra 04 is coming
from but then we need and I think I'm
just going
to
um I don't know if I want to add the
other beam
in um
okay but let's just add the next shaft
collar I'm going to activate this this
we're going to copy and we're going to
paste it okay then this needs to go how
far down is the question it needs to go
so that the distance between here and
this
face
is 36
so if
we so wait let's cancel let's take this
top
one okay so now we're going to move this
down
well there's 2.5 right it's because it's
moving from this center
point
so this is 30 6 and it's at 2.5 right
now so it needs to
move 36 - 5 it needs to move 31 I
believe so if we press okay and then we
inspect this and click on that we should
get
36 and we do so that's perfect okay so
now well we really don't have that much
room maybe you can like alternate back
and forth to do it
and then that's a spacer I guess I can
print a spacer that's fine that's just a
hollow itout
cylinder okay and then we just need one
more so I'm actually going to take this
Cross Beam and copy
it and I'm going
to I want to rotate it not that that way
oops
oh wait delete delete delete okay I'm
going to copy and paste this now I want
to rotate
this to be like
that but then I want to move it wait is
that right no that's not
right why what the [__]
I don't get it oh you know what it
is I want to paste new it I think I want
to paste new
it okay I I don't know but we got to get
it right on the first try I guess so
this is the way that didn't make any
sense
however is it this
way
no so it is the way that I had it the
first time it's this
way okay I'm going to move this up
by minus two
plus and then this is going to be
six why don't I just make the joint oh
crap that thing is so freaking annoying
all right I don't even want to do it
this is the stackup and then we just
have a 2 mm Gap here so then we're going
to take this paste it and we're going to
move it down
by
two or we're going to 2 + 5
okay so there we go that's
it there's so many spacers it's insane
so that means we're going to need that
many um bolts or whatever set
screws that's fine all right so let's
try to do the second one then
so can I make this a revolute thing can
I can I how do I do that I want to take
this
handle and make it motion
link yeah I don't know how if I'm going
to be able to do that look at all these
planes
that way too much construction geometry
drive me crazy
bro it's not even turning anything off
where are
these oh for some reason origin is on on
all of these
it's probably because origin is like on
somewhere and it got inherited or
something I don't really
know okay so that is the first layer
there so now we need
to I'm going to take that
so once this is
done I am going to print this out we're
going to see how it
goes it's going to turn H dude I need to
use a this this whole thing is
stupid it's going to feel like
crap this beam needs to
be
lyrical I
mean I'm just so dumb why did I make it
a rod like that I thought it' be easier
but it's just going to make it feel bad
to
use regardless I think think I'm going
to it might not even work really
because these are 5x5 and this is 3x3 so
it has room to actually move this whole
assembly 2
mm in any direction
really maybe that's too much play maybe
I should just increase the size the
rod when I do this but you can't do it
by too much that's why it needs to
be let's see how do they even do
that but these are square
rods on the first axle can
connect oh that is the purpose of this
bracket I was try I was on the train and
I was like what is the purpose of this
bracket here it's to prevent the
um I don't know how it does it but it
must have a smaller amount of play in
there so that the the gears can't really
shift back and for to a bigger gear on
the second axle this second axle can
also have a smaller gear that then
connects to a bigger gear on a third
axle repeating this pattern will leave
the output with a very little speed but
increas
I wonder what the cuz those rods look
circular at the ends I'm wondering if
they no but that one looks kind of maybe
they do maybe they are
squares yeah look at that Gap there
maybe they are squares but
still this bracket is definitely to keep
it in place
well we'll see how it is without the
bracket but I'm thinking it might not
work and we'll need
to basically the sketch would
be I think the sketch would be
like you have a you have a a circle
whose diameter is probably or is
probably
like 3.4 or
something and then you
have
um like a rectangle around
this and then two circles here
and then the distance between these guys
is um
30 so like the distance between here and
here is going to be
30 and the distance between here and
here is going to be is going to
be this is going to be this over
two and then this we just make wide
and so then you put the shaft or
whatever you call it through
here and
you and it'll it can sort of spin around
in there without moving that
much but it's still not high friction
although that could
be damn I think I need to design this
part
I don't think it's going to work
otherwise but I think what I'm going to
do is end the stream and go to gym once
I once this finishes printing
so in the meantime what I could
do I mean I I feel like I should just
full send it I'm going to print the
handle this this long
shaft uh a bunch of these spacers and a
bunch of these
m4s and then we're just going to try to
fix it to this thing and then I want to
print the next gear so let's do this
copy and paste this we want to move
this 30
right okay but this one can be shorter
so we just need to move it like that and
I'm fine with having it Jank like that
because that's
okay yeah see how much play there is in
there this can just wobble this whole
thing can just wobble
around you're definitely going to need
to put a I'm definitely going to need to
put a bracket
there but that's fine that's five I can
just use
M
four m i could just use these m4s to
hold it in
place they're probably strong enough
for
okay um so this is the more the same
[Music]
right where does he show that there we
go yeah so there just a spacer at the
end we're going to skip the bracket for
now
because we can print them
after and then what I really want to do
is I want this
gear and this is going to be module
teeth
40 then I probably am going to have to
add backlash but we're going to see how
this
goes and these are two separate gears oh
wait
that's actually interesting
are yeah no okay so then we want to
first thing we want to do is we want
to sketch on here rectangle Center
rectangle 3.2 by 3.2 by
3.2 okay then we want to extrude this to
here okay then we want to
hopefully that's the
nope so let's take this move it over a
little bit okay joint
that
to oh wait is there a spacer in the
interior there I can't actually tell but
it would make sense that there is it
doesn't actually look like there
is but I can't imagine that there's not
so so before we do this joint I'm
actually going to uh take this component
copy and paste
it paste
it I'm going to move this
30 and then now we can
join this to
here but
then shift it
up to
here and then let's see okay okay that's
fine I don't care about the intersection
really but that does look right if I
were to rotate
it oh wait undo H it wait no no no I
want to redo and I want to change this
yeah see that's what I always get wrong
is what you should do is instead of undo
because it removes so much so we want
this to be minus
770 if we look from here that's
perfect and then somehow they have fixed
this
together I don't know if this is one
part or
no no no it it doesn't actually matter
it doesn't matter at all so that's just
some
spacer we could put the set screw thing
in there just and just be totally fine
let's
see what
is Toy Story is pretty
good is Monster zinc
Pixar oh wait yeah no baymax is what
yeah I thought it
was where's a list of just every
Disney
character hopefully they're sorted oh
they're A to Z that's kind of ridiculous
I I don't know man I'm not the biggest
Dory is a pretty good one
oh Treasure Planet yeah Treasure Planet
is
sick okay yeah
there must be a Baymax
model oh little
Baymax no support Baymax that's pretty
sweet
it doesn't
say
okay so what should the spacing be then
the spacing should just be
uh yeah I I I say let's just
uh let's just do that and then we're
going to copy yeah we're just going to
use the ex exact same gears that's
actually so nice so we can move this
down
by five is that that's not right it's
going to be 5 + 4 it's going to be
nine and then here by
30 and then now
uh now let's just put one at the
end or let's put one
here so let's take
this move this down by 9 again
right and then let's paste it and do
another
one and this one needs to get moved down
to
to here oh wait no this needs to get
moved down uh it doesn't give me a
plane
uh I don't know it's going to
be 5 10 15 + 8
is
23 so
23 so is it 13 oh wait
crap wait I'm going to
uh cancel this move
down and can I select this no see that's
not what I wanted to do so we want to
move this 13
down did I get it
right I honestly can't tell but I'm
going to say I got it right and then
we're going
to we're going to move this
down uh what is it
it's 7
okay so many spacers
bro okay so I want to
do this this all right actually let me
just do this
this
this and that we're going to copy and
we're going to paste
it we're going to move this by
30 okay then we're going to take this
spur gear and move it up
by nine oh minus
9 then we're going to move this one
down by minus
9 oh oh wait actually no we we need to
delete this
one
sweet all right so maybe I should just
get saving two
designs oh no well whatever
this thing is too long
man that's a much more reasonable
oh nice let me go get my
stuff
e
e e
okay so those oh I
whatever so the uh the set
screw the it was too thin to make that
little indentation for the uh the Allen
wrench so that didn't go as
planned and then I never actually
printed out the
m6 nut which is annoying so I can't
really test how well this thing works
Works uh but I think I should
just
uh send it so the handle oh the handle I
need
to save as
mesh I never save the handle okay cool
I don't know why it always switches
Windows all right gear holding
me uh save as
mesh
wait okay so we'll do
V3 okay now I
need this thing
which I think I have I think it's in
here still wait what I did print it did
I miss it where did it
go hold
on
e e
okay so I did find it which is nice
then you want to
put Flats like that okay
there we
go so now it's basically in there
forever well actually maybe I could get
it
out no I don't
know and then we don't have a really
long
screw this set screw is
not going to do
it I shouldn't have made it 10 I should
have made it way
more well anyways um let's just get this
print
going so delete this we need
two of these
beams okay we
need
uh set screw collar we
need one 2 3
4 I'll make seven of
them 1 2 3 four five six
okay then we need the
handle handle handle handle
handle then what else do we need we need
the other we need the gears which are
the most important
parts and the gears
oh wait I don't think I did that
right
okay okay now
okay nice that tool is so
useful oh and then we need the um set
screws which I'm just going to use M6
for that with the head on it because
then I can actually do it so my library
M6 2x10 that's the
one
okay so this guy one two three four five
six okay now we want to arrange them all
again
nice
cool all right that's it for the stream
basically what do we do we
got we got more familiar with gears and
infusion which is good we made this
which actually is a full you know it
doesn't have the washer thing but it's I
guess a properly done
gear uh with a mounting
Hub and then we printed out the parts
for this
assembly uh and then we can just start
assemblying which is nice cuz we after
this print presumably we'll have meshing
gears which is really
cool but that's
it peace out